Number_plate.py
---------------

import cv2: This line imports the OpenCV library, which is used for computer vision tasks in Python.

harcascade = "model/haarcascade_russian_plate_number.xml": This line defines the path to the pre-trained Haar cascade XML file, which is used for detecting Russian license plate numbers.

cap = cv2.VideoCapture(0): This line initializes the video capture object. It captures video from the default camera (index 0).

cap.set(3, 640) and cap.set(4, 480): These lines set the width and height of the captured video frames to 640 pixels and 480 pixels, respectively.

min_area = 500: This variable specifies the minimum area threshold for detecting license plates.

count = 0: This variable is used to keep track of the number of detected license plates.

The while True: loop continuously captures frames from the video stream until the user interrupts it.

success, img = cap.read(): This line reads a frame from the video capture object and stores it in the img variable.

plate_cascade = cv2.CascadeClassifier(harcascade): This line creates a cascade classifier object using the Haar cascade XML file specified earlier.

img_gray = cv2.cvtColor(img, cv2.COLOR_BGR2GRAY): This line converts the color image img to grayscale, which is often a preprocessing step for object detection.

plates = plate_cascade.detectMultiScale(img_gray, 1.1, 4): This line detects objects (license plates) in the grayscale image using the cascade classifier. The detectMultiScale function returns a list of rectangles where objects were detected.

The for loop iterates over each detected license plate:

a. Calculates the area of the detected plate.

b. If the area is greater than the min_area, it draws a green rectangle around the detected plate and adds a text label "Number Plate" above it.

c. It crops the detected region of interest (ROI) from the original image.

d. Saves the cropped plate image to a file in the "plates" directory with a unique filename.

e. Increments the count variable to keep track of the number of detected plates.

cv2.imshow("Result", img): This line displays the original image with bounding boxes and labels for detected license plates.

if cv2.waitKey(1) & 0xFF == ord('q'): break: This line waits for the user to press the 'q' key to exit the program. If the 'q' key is pressed, the loop breaks.

cap.release(): This releases the video capture object and frees up system resources.

cv2.destroyAllWindows(): This closes all OpenCV windows.